docs/reference-manual/src/main/asciidoc/attach.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=attach
next=backup-domain.html
prev=apply-http-lb-changes.html
~~~~~~

= attach

[[attach]]

== attach

Attaches to subcommands that were started using `asadmin --detach` or
that contain progress information

=== Synopsis

[source]
----
asadmin [asadmin-options] attach [--help]
job_id
----

=== Description

The `attach` subcommand attaches to subcommands that were started using
the `asadmin` utility option `--detach` or that contain progress
information. The `--detach` option detaches long-running subcommands and
executes them in the background in detach mode.

Job IDs are assigned to the subcommands (jobs), and can be used to view
the status of a job and its output. Use the
xref:list-jobs.adoc#list-jobs[`list-jobs`(1)] subcommand to view the
jobs and their job IDs, and the
xref:configure-managed-jobs.adoc#configure-managed-jobs[`configure-managed-jobs`(1)]
subcommand to configure how long information about the jobs is kept.

This subcommand is supported in remote mode only.

=== Options

asadmin-options::
  Options for the `asadmin` utility. For information about these
  options, see the xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)] help page.
`--help`::
`-?`::
  Displays the help text for the subcommand.

=== Operands

job_id::
  The ID of the job for which you want to view status and output.

=== Examples

[[CBHDFEGB]]

==== Example 1   Attaching to a Subcommand and Checking Its Status

This example attaches to the `deploy` subcommand with a job ID of `20`
and shows that the job is finished. If a subcommand is still in
progress, the output displays the current status, for example,
`64%: Uploading bits`.

[source]
----
asadmin> attach 20
Finished execution of deploy
Command attach executed successfully.
----

=== Exit Status

0::
  subcommand executed successfully
1::
  error in executing the subcommand

=== See Also

xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)]

xref:configure-managed-jobs.adoc#configure-managed-jobs[`configure-managed-jobs`(1)],
xref:list-jobs.adoc#list-jobs[`list-jobs`(1)]

Commit message:

Added example for bash scripts to the attach command documentation
Signed-off-by: David Matějček <david.matejcek@omnifish.ee>

docs/reference-manual/src/main/asciidoc/attach.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=attach
next=backup-domain.html
prev=apply-http-lb-changes.html
~~~~~~

= attach

[[attach]]

== attach

Attaches to subcommands that were started using `asadmin --detach` or
that contain progress information

=== Synopsis

[source]
----
asadmin [asadmin-options] attach [--help]
job_id
----

=== Description

The `attach` subcommand attaches to subcommands that were started using
the `asadmin` utility option `--detach` or that contain progress
information. The `--detach` option detaches long-running subcommands and
executes them in the background in detach mode.

Job IDs are assigned to the subcommands (jobs), and can be used to view
the status of a job and its output. Use the
xref:list-jobs.adoc#list-jobs[`list-jobs`(1)] subcommand to view the
jobs and their job IDs, and the
xref:configure-managed-jobs.adoc#configure-managed-jobs[`configure-managed-jobs`(1)]
subcommand to configure how long information about the jobs is kept.

This subcommand is supported in remote mode only.

=== Options

asadmin-options::
  Options for the `asadmin` utility. For information about these
  options, see the xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)] help page.
`--help`::
`-?`::
  Displays the help text for the subcommand.

=== Operands

job_id::
  The ID of the job for which you want to view status and output.

=== Examples

[[CBHDFEGB]]

==== Example 1   Attaching to a Subcommand and Checking Its Status

This example attaches to the `deploy` subcommand with a job ID of `20`
and shows that the job is finished. If a subcommand is still in
progress, the output displays the current status, for example,
`64%: Uploading bits`.

[source]
----
asadmin> attach 20
Finished execution of deploy
Command attach executed successfully.
----

[[CBHDFEGC]]

==== Example 2   Usage in scripts

This example deploys an ear file while we continue configuring the domain.
Then attaches to the `deploy` subcommand and shows that the job is finished.
As showing progress is not useful in scripts, we use `--terse` to wait
for the result.

Note: Don't execute it on command line, failure would exit your active shell!

[source]
----
#!/bin/bash
set -e
jobid=$(asadmin --terse --detach deploy ./application.ear)
echo $jobid
1
# Here you can add other commands
asadmin ...
result="$(asadmin --terse attach ${jobid})"
if [[ $result =~ "FAILURE" ]]; then
   echo "${result}"
   exit 1;
fi
----

=== Exit Status

0::
  subcommand executed successfully
1::
  error in executing the subcommand

=== See Also

xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)]

xref:configure-managed-jobs.adoc#configure-managed-jobs[`configure-managed-jobs`(1)],
xref:list-jobs.adoc#list-jobs[`list-jobs`(1)]
