docs/reference-manual/src/main/asciidoc/create-http-listener.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=create-http-listener
next=create-http-redirect.html
prev=create-http-lb-ref.html
~~~~~~

= create-http-listener

[[create-http-listener]]

== create-http-listener

Adds a new HTTP network listener socket

=== Synopsis

[source]
----
asadmin [asadmin-options] create-http-listener [--help]
--listeneraddress address
--listenerport listener-port
{--default-virtual-server | --defaultvs} virtual-server
[--servername server-name]
[--acceptorthreads acceptor-threads]
[--xpowered={true|false}]
[--redirectport redirect-port]
[--securityenabled={false|true}]
[--enabled={true|false}]
[--target target]
listener-id
----

=== Description

The `create-http-listener` subcommand creates an HTTP network listener.
This subcommand is supported in remote mode only.


[NOTE]
====
If you edit the special HTTP network listener named `admin-listener`,
you must restart the server for the changes to take effect. The
Administration Console does not tell you that a restart is required in
this case.
====

[NOTE]
====
This subcommand is provided for backward compatibility and as a shortcut
for creating network listeners that use the HTTP protocol. Behind the
scenes, this subcommand creates a network listener and its associated
protocol, transport, and HTTP configuration.
====


=== Options

asadmin-options::
  Options for the `asadmin` utility. For information about these
  options, see the xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)] help page.
`--help`::
`-?`::
  Displays the help text for the subcommand.
`--listeneraddress`::
  The IP address or the hostname (resolvable by DNS).
`--listenerport`::
  The port number to create the listen socket on. Legal values are
  1-65535. On UNIX, creating sockets that listen on ports 1-1024
  requires superuser privileges. Configuring an SSL listen socket to
  listen on port 443 is recommended.
`--default-virtual-server`::
`--defaultvs`::
  The ID attribute of the default virtual server for this listener. The
  `--defaultvs` option is deprecated.
`--servername`::
  Tells the server what to put in the host name section of any URLs it
  sends to the client. This affects URLs the server automatically
  generates; it doesn't affect the URLs for directories and files stored
  in the server. This name should be the alias name if your server uses
  an alias. If a colon and port number are appended, that port will be
  used in URLs that the server sends to the client.
`--acceptorthreads`::
  The number of acceptor threads for the listener socket. The
  recommended value is the number of processors in the machine. The
  default value is 1.
`--xpowered`::
  If set to `true`, adds the `X-Powered-By: Servlet/3.0` and
  `X-Powered-By: JSP/2.0` headers to the appropriate responses. The
  Servlet 3.0 specification defines the `X-Powered-By: Servlet/3.0`
  header, which containers may add to servlet-generated responses.
  Similarly, the JSP 2.0 specification defines the
  `X-Powered-By: JSP/2.0` header, which containers may add to responses
  that use JSP technology. The goal of these headers is to aid in
  gathering statistical data about the use of Servlet and JSP
  technology. The default value is `true`.
`--redirectport`::
  Do not specify this option. This option is retained for compatibility
  with earlier releases. If you specify this option, a syntax error does
  not occur. Instead, the subcommand runs successfully and displays a
  warning message that the option is ignored.
`--securityenabled`::
  If set to true, the HTTP listener runs SSL. You can turn SSL2 or SSL3
  ON or OFF and set ciphers using an SSL element. The security setting
  globally enables or disables SSL by making certificates available to
  the server instance. The default value is `false`.
`--enabled`::
  If set to true, the listener is enabled at runtime. The default value
  is `true`.
`--target`::
  Creates the HTTP listener only on the specified target. Valid values
  are as follows:
+
  `server`;;
    Creates the HTTP listener on the default server instance. This is
    the default value.
  configuration-name;;
    Creates the HTTP listener in the specified configuration.
  cluster-name;;
    Creates the HTTP listener on all server instances in the specified
    cluster.
  standalone-instance-name;;
    Creates the HTTP listener on the specified standalone server
    instance.

=== Operands

listener-id::
  The listener ID of the HTTP network listener.

=== Examples

[[sthref275]]

==== Example 1   Creating an HTTP Network Listener

The following command creates an HTTP network listener named
`sampleListener` that uses a nondefault number of acceptor threads and
is not enabled at runtime:

[source]
----
asadmin> create-http-listener --listeneraddress 0.0.0.0 --listenerport 7272
--defaultvs server --servername host1.sun.com --acceptorthreads 100
--securityenabled=false --enabled=false sampleListener
Command create-http-listener executed successfully.
----

=== Exit Status

0::
  command executed successfully
1::
  error in executing the command

=== See Also

xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)]

xref:create-ssl.adoc#create-ssl[`create-ssl`(1)],
xref:create-network-listener.adoc#create-network-listener[`create-network-listener`(1)],
xref:create-virtual-server.adoc#create-virtual-server[`create-virtual-server`(1)],
xref:delete-http-listener.adoc#delete-http-listener[`delete-http-listener`(1)],
xref:list-http-listeners.adoc#list-http-listeners[`list-http-listeners`(1)]

Commit message:

GH #24918: Allow scheme in server name

docs/reference-manual/src/main/asciidoc/create-http-listener.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=create-http-listener
next=create-http-redirect.html
prev=create-http-lb-ref.html
~~~~~~

= create-http-listener

[[create-http-listener]]

== create-http-listener

Adds a new HTTP network listener socket

=== Synopsis

[source]
----
asadmin [asadmin-options] create-http-listener [--help]
--listeneraddress address
--listenerport listener-port
{--default-virtual-server | --defaultvs} virtual-server
[--servername server-name]
[--acceptorthreads acceptor-threads]
[--xpowered={true|false}]
[--redirectport redirect-port]
[--securityenabled={false|true}]
[--enabled={true|false}]
[--target target]
listener-id
----

=== Description

The `create-http-listener` subcommand creates an HTTP network listener.
This subcommand is supported in remote mode only.


[NOTE]
====
If you edit the special HTTP network listener named `admin-listener`,
you must restart the server for the changes to take effect. The
Administration Console does not tell you that a restart is required in
this case.
====

[NOTE]
====
This subcommand is provided for backward compatibility and as a shortcut
for creating network listeners that use the HTTP protocol. Behind the
scenes, this subcommand creates a network listener and its associated
protocol, transport, and HTTP configuration.
====


=== Options

asadmin-options::
  Options for the `asadmin` utility. For information about these
  options, see the xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)] help page.
`--help`::
`-?`::
  Displays the help text for the subcommand.
`--listeneraddress`::
  The IP address or the hostname (resolvable by DNS).
`--listenerport`::
  The port number to create the listen socket on. Legal values are
  1-65535. On UNIX, creating sockets that listen on ports 1-1024
  requires superuser privileges. Configuring an SSL listen socket to
  listen on port 443 is recommended.
`--default-virtual-server`::
`--defaultvs`::
  The ID attribute of the default virtual server for this listener. The
  `--defaultvs` option is deprecated.
`--servername`::
  Tells the server what to put in the host name section of any URLs it
  sends to the client. This affects URLs the server automatically
  generates; it doesn't affect the URLs for directories and files stored
  in the server. This name should be the alias name if your server uses
  an alias. If a colon and port number are appended, that port will be
  used in URLs that the server sends to the client. If a scheme and :// are prepended, the scheme will be used in the URLs.
`--acceptorthreads`::
  The number of acceptor threads for the listener socket. The
  recommended value is the number of processors in the machine. The
  default value is 1.
`--xpowered`::
  If set to `true`, adds the `X-Powered-By: Servlet/3.0` and
  `X-Powered-By: JSP/2.0` headers to the appropriate responses. The
  Servlet 3.0 specification defines the `X-Powered-By: Servlet/3.0`
  header, which containers may add to servlet-generated responses.
  Similarly, the JSP 2.0 specification defines the
  `X-Powered-By: JSP/2.0` header, which containers may add to responses
  that use JSP technology. The goal of these headers is to aid in
  gathering statistical data about the use of Servlet and JSP
  technology. The default value is `true`.
`--redirectport`::
  Do not specify this option. This option is retained for compatibility
  with earlier releases. If you specify this option, a syntax error does
  not occur. Instead, the subcommand runs successfully and displays a
  warning message that the option is ignored.
`--securityenabled`::
  If set to true, the HTTP listener runs SSL. You can turn SSL2 or SSL3
  ON or OFF and set ciphers using an SSL element. The security setting
  globally enables or disables SSL by making certificates available to
  the server instance. The default value is `false`.
`--enabled`::
  If set to true, the listener is enabled at runtime. The default value
  is `true`.
`--target`::
  Creates the HTTP listener only on the specified target. Valid values
  are as follows:
+
  `server`;;
    Creates the HTTP listener on the default server instance. This is
    the default value.
  configuration-name;;
    Creates the HTTP listener in the specified configuration.
  cluster-name;;
    Creates the HTTP listener on all server instances in the specified
    cluster.
  standalone-instance-name;;
    Creates the HTTP listener on the specified standalone server
    instance.

=== Operands

listener-id::
  The listener ID of the HTTP network listener.

=== Examples

[[sthref275]]

==== Example 1   Creating an HTTP Network Listener

The following command creates an HTTP network listener named
`sampleListener` that uses a nondefault number of acceptor threads and
is not enabled at runtime:

[source]
----
asadmin> create-http-listener --listeneraddress 0.0.0.0 --listenerport 7272
--defaultvs server --servername host1.sun.com --acceptorthreads 100
--securityenabled=false --enabled=false sampleListener
Command create-http-listener executed successfully.
----

=== Exit Status

0::
  command executed successfully
1::
  error in executing the command

=== See Also

xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)]

xref:create-ssl.adoc#create-ssl[`create-ssl`(1)],
xref:create-network-listener.adoc#create-network-listener[`create-network-listener`(1)],
xref:create-virtual-server.adoc#create-virtual-server[`create-virtual-server`(1)],
xref:delete-http-listener.adoc#delete-http-listener[`delete-http-listener`(1)],
xref:list-http-listeners.adoc#list-http-listeners[`list-http-listeners`(1)]
