docs/reference-manual/src/main/asciidoc/create-jvm-options.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=create-jvm-options
next=create-lifecycle-module.html
prev=create-jndi-resource.html
~~~~~~

= create-jvm-options

[[create-jvm-options]]

== create-jvm-options

Creates options for the Java application launcher

=== Synopsis

[source]
----
asadmin [asadmin-options] create-jvm-options [--help]
[--target target] [--profiler={true|false}]
(jvm-option-name=jvm-option-value) [:jvm-option-name=jvm-option-value*]
----

=== Description

The `create-jvm-options` subcommand creates command-line options that
are passed to the Java application launcher when {productName} is
started. The options that this subcommand creates are in addition to the
options that are preset with {productName}. Java application
launcher options are stored in the Java configuration `java—config`
element or the profiler `profiler` element of the `domain.xml` file. The
options are sent to the command line in the order they appear in the
`java—config` element or the profiler `profiler` element in the
`domain.xml` file.

Profiler options are used to record the settings that are required to
start a particular profiler. The profiler must already exist. If
necessary, use the
xref:create-profiler.adoc#create-profiler[`create-profiler`(1)]
subcommand to create the profiler.

This subcommand can be used to create the following types of options:

* Java system properties. These options are set through the `-D` option
of the Java application launcher. For example:
+
`-Djava.security.manager`
+
`-Denvironment=Production`

* Startup parameters for the Java application launcher. These options
are preceded by the dash character (`-`). For example:
+
``--XX:PermSize=``size
+
`-Xmx1024m`
+
`-d64`

If the subcommand specifies an option that already exists, the command
does not re-create the option.

Variable references, e.g. `${variable}`, can be used anywhere in JVM options. In that case, they are resolved as follows:

1. Profiler properties in Java Config
2. System properties in JVM options in Java Config
3. System properties in instance, cluster, or config that match the instance being started
4. System properties in the JVM of the server launcher (note that they may be different from properties in the JVM of the server if it starts with a different JVM)
5. `asenv` properties
6. Environment variables

If a property `org.glassfish.envPreferredToProperties` is defined as `true` (in any source except environment variables), then environment variables take precedence over other sources, instead of being the last resolved source.

[CAUTION]
====
Ensure that any option that you create is valid. The subcommand might
allow you to create an invalid option, but such an invalid option can
cause startup to fail.
====


An option can be verified by examining the server log after
{productName} starts. Options for the Java application launcher are
written to the `server.log` file before any other information when
{productName} starts.

The addition of some options requires a server restart for changes to
become effective. Other options are set immediately in the environment
of the domain administration server (DAS) and do not require a restart.
Whether a restart is required depends on the type of option.

* Restart is not required for Java system properties whose names do not
start with `-Djava.` or `-Djavax.` (including the trailing period). For
example, restart is not required for the following Java system property:
+
`-Denvironment=Production`

* Restart is required for the following options:

** Java system properties whose names start with `-Djava.` or `-Djavax.`
(including the trailing period). For example:
+
`-Djava.security.manager`

** Startup parameters for the Java application launcher. For example:
+
`-client`
+
`-Xmx1024m`
+
`-d64`

To restart the DAS, use the
xref:restart-domain.adoc#restart-domain[`restart-domain`(1)] command.

This subcommand is supported in remote mode only.

=== Options

asadmin-options::
  Options for the `asadmin` utility. For information about these
  options, see the xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)] help page.
`--help`::
`-?`::
  Displays the help text for the subcommand.
`--target`::
  Specifies the target on which you are creating Java application
  launcher options. +
  Valid values are as follows:

  `server`;;
    Specifies the DAS (default).
  instance-name;;
    Specifies a {productName} instance.
  cluster-name;;
    Specifies a cluster.
  configuration-name;;
    Specifies a named configuration.

`--profiler`::
  Indicates whether the Java application launcher options are for the
  profiler. The profiler must exist for this option to be true. Default
  is false.

=== Operands

jvm-option-name::
  One or more options delimited by a colon (:). The format of an option
  depends on the following:

  * If the option has a name and a value, the format is option-name=value.
  * If the option has only a name, the format is option-name.
    For example, `-Xmx2048m`.
  * If the first option name could be misinterpreted as one or more
    `asadmin` short options, the format is `--` option-name. For example,
    `-server` in the following command could be misinterpreted as `-se`,
    the `asadmin` short forms for `--secure` and `--echo`:
+
[source]
----
create-jvm-options -server
----
+
To create the JVM option `-server`, instead use the command:
+
[source]
----
create-jvm-options -- -server
----
+
[NOTE]
====
If an option name or option value contains a colon, the backslash
(`\`) must be used to escape the colon in the name or value. Other
characters might also require an escape character. For more
information about escape characters in subcommand options, see the
xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)] man page.
====

=== Examples

[[sthref374]]

==== Example 1   Setting Java System Properties

This example sets multiple Java system properties.

[source]
----
asadmin> create-jvm-options -Dunixlocation=/root/example:
-Dvariable=\$HOME:-Dwindowslocation=d\:\\sun\\appserver:-Doption1=-value1
created 4 option(s)
Command create-jvm-options executed successfully.
----

[[sthref375]]

==== Example 2   Setting a Startup Parameter for the Java Application
Launcher

This example sets the maximum available heap size to 1024.

[source]
----
asadmin> create-jvm-options -Xmx1024m
created 1 option(s)
Command create-jvm-options executed successfully.
----

[[sthref376]]

==== Example 3   Setting Multiple Startup Parameters for the Java Application
Launcher

This example sets the maximum available heap size to 1024 and requests
details about garbage collection.

[source]
----
asadmin> create-jvm-options "-Xmx1024m:-XX\:+PrintGCDetails"
created 1 option(s)
Command create-jvm-options executed successfully.
----

In this case, one of the two parameters already exists, so the
subcommand reports that only one option was set.

[[sthref377]]

==== Example 4   Setting a JVM Startup Parameter for the Profiler

This example sets a JVM startup parameter for the profiler.

[source]
----
asadmin> create-jvm-options --profiler=true -XX\:MaxPermSize=192m
created 1 option(s)
Command create-jvm-options executed successfully.
----

=== Exit Status

0::
  subcommand executed successfully
1::
  error in executing the subcommand

=== See Also

xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)]

xref:create-profiler.adoc#create-profiler[`create-profiler`(1)],
xref:delete-jvm-options.adoc#delete-jvm-options[`delete-jvm-options`(1)],
xref:list-jvm-options.adoc#list-jvm-options[`list-jvm-options`(1)],
xref:restart-domain.adoc#restart-domain[`restart-domain`(1)]

For more information about the Java application launcher, see the
reference page for the operating system that you are using:

* Oracle Solaris and Linux: java - the Java application launcher
(`http://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/tools/solaris/java.html`)
* Windows: java - the Java application launcher
(`http://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/tools/windows/java.html`)

Commit message:

#25381 Support replacing JVM options with env vars

docs/reference-manual/src/main/asciidoc/create-jvm-options.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=create-jvm-options
next=create-lifecycle-module.html
prev=create-jndi-resource.html
~~~~~~

= create-jvm-options

[[create-jvm-options]]

== create-jvm-options

Creates options for the Java application launcher

=== Synopsis

[source]
----
asadmin [asadmin-options] create-jvm-options [--help]
[--target target] [--profiler={true|false}]
(jvm-option-name=jvm-option-value) [:jvm-option-name=jvm-option-value*]
----

=== Description

The `create-jvm-options` subcommand creates command-line options that
are passed to the Java application launcher when {productName} is
started. The options that this subcommand creates are in addition to the
options that are preset with {productName}. Java application
launcher options are stored in the Java configuration `java—config`
element or the profiler `profiler` element of the `domain.xml` file. The
options are sent to the command line in the order they appear in the
`java—config` element or the profiler `profiler` element in the
`domain.xml` file.

Profiler options are used to record the settings that are required to
start a particular profiler. The profiler must already exist. If
necessary, use the
xref:create-profiler.adoc#create-profiler[`create-profiler`(1)]
subcommand to create the profiler.

This subcommand can be used to create the following types of options:

* Java system properties. These options are set through the `-D` option
of the Java application launcher. For example:
+
`-Djava.security.manager`
+
`-Denvironment=Production`

* Startup parameters for the Java application launcher. These options
are preceded by the dash character (`-`). For example:
+
``--XX:PermSize=``size
+
`-Xmx1024m`
+
`-d64`

If the subcommand specifies an option that already exists, the command
does not re-create the option.

Variable references, e.g. `${variable}`, can be used anywhere in JVM options. In that case, they are resolved as follows:

1. Profiler properties in Java Config
2. System properties in JVM options in Java Config
3. System properties in instance, cluster, or config that match the instance being started
4. System properties in the JVM of the server launcher (note that they may be different from properties in the JVM of the server if it starts with a different JVM)
5. `asenv` properties
6. Environment variables

If a property `org.glassfish.envPreferredToProperties` is defined as `true` (in any source except environment variables), then environment variables take precedence over other sources, instead of being the last resolved source. It's also possible to override options and system properties defined in JVM options with an environment variable that either has the same name, or same name if case is ignored and non-alphanumeric characters are replaced with the `_` character. For example, a property `-Dmy.name` can be defined by redefined by environment variables `my.name`, `my_name`, or `MY_NAME`.

[CAUTION]
====
Ensure that any option that you create is valid. The subcommand might
allow you to create an invalid option, but such an invalid option can
cause startup to fail.
====


An option can be verified by examining the server log after
{productName} starts. Options for the Java application launcher are
written to the `server.log` file before any other information when
{productName} starts.

The addition of some options requires a server restart for changes to
become effective. Other options are set immediately in the environment
of the domain administration server (DAS) and do not require a restart.
Whether a restart is required depends on the type of option.

* Restart is not required for Java system properties whose names do not
start with `-Djava.` or `-Djavax.` (including the trailing period). For
example, restart is not required for the following Java system property:
+
`-Denvironment=Production`

* Restart is required for the following options:

** Java system properties whose names start with `-Djava.` or `-Djavax.`
(including the trailing period). For example:
+
`-Djava.security.manager`

** Startup parameters for the Java application launcher. For example:
+
`-client`
+
`-Xmx1024m`
+
`-d64`

To restart the DAS, use the
xref:restart-domain.adoc#restart-domain[`restart-domain`(1)] command.

This subcommand is supported in remote mode only.

=== Options

asadmin-options::
  Options for the `asadmin` utility. For information about these
  options, see the xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)] help page.
`--help`::
`-?`::
  Displays the help text for the subcommand.
`--target`::
  Specifies the target on which you are creating Java application
  launcher options. +
  Valid values are as follows:

  `server`;;
    Specifies the DAS (default).
  instance-name;;
    Specifies a {productName} instance.
  cluster-name;;
    Specifies a cluster.
  configuration-name;;
    Specifies a named configuration.

`--profiler`::
  Indicates whether the Java application launcher options are for the
  profiler. The profiler must exist for this option to be true. Default
  is false.

=== Operands

jvm-option-name::
  One or more options delimited by a colon (:). The format of an option
  depends on the following:

  * If the option has a name and a value, the format is option-name=value.
  * If the option has only a name, the format is option-name.
    For example, `-Xmx2048m`.
  * If the first option name could be misinterpreted as one or more
    `asadmin` short options, the format is `--` option-name. For example,
    `-server` in the following command could be misinterpreted as `-se`,
    the `asadmin` short forms for `--secure` and `--echo`:
+
[source]
----
create-jvm-options -server
----
+
To create the JVM option `-server`, instead use the command:
+
[source]
----
create-jvm-options -- -server
----
+
[NOTE]
====
If an option name or option value contains a colon, the backslash
(`\`) must be used to escape the colon in the name or value. Other
characters might also require an escape character. For more
information about escape characters in subcommand options, see the
xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)] man page.
====

=== Examples

[[sthref374]]

==== Example 1   Setting Java System Properties

This example sets multiple Java system properties.

[source]
----
asadmin> create-jvm-options -Dunixlocation=/root/example:
-Dvariable=\$HOME:-Dwindowslocation=d\:\\sun\\appserver:-Doption1=-value1
created 4 option(s)
Command create-jvm-options executed successfully.
----

[[sthref375]]

==== Example 2   Setting a Startup Parameter for the Java Application
Launcher

This example sets the maximum available heap size to 1024.

[source]
----
asadmin> create-jvm-options -Xmx1024m
created 1 option(s)
Command create-jvm-options executed successfully.
----

[[sthref376]]

==== Example 3   Setting Multiple Startup Parameters for the Java Application
Launcher

This example sets the maximum available heap size to 1024 and requests
details about garbage collection.

[source]
----
asadmin> create-jvm-options "-Xmx1024m:-XX\:+PrintGCDetails"
created 1 option(s)
Command create-jvm-options executed successfully.
----

In this case, one of the two parameters already exists, so the
subcommand reports that only one option was set.

[[sthref377]]

==== Example 4   Setting a JVM Startup Parameter for the Profiler

This example sets a JVM startup parameter for the profiler.

[source]
----
asadmin> create-jvm-options --profiler=true -XX\:MaxPermSize=192m
created 1 option(s)
Command create-jvm-options executed successfully.
----

=== Exit Status

0::
  subcommand executed successfully
1::
  error in executing the subcommand

=== See Also

xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)]

xref:create-profiler.adoc#create-profiler[`create-profiler`(1)],
xref:delete-jvm-options.adoc#delete-jvm-options[`delete-jvm-options`(1)],
xref:list-jvm-options.adoc#list-jvm-options[`list-jvm-options`(1)],
xref:restart-domain.adoc#restart-domain[`restart-domain`(1)]

For more information about the Java application launcher, see the
reference page for the operating system that you are using:

* Oracle Solaris and Linux: java - the Java application launcher
(`http://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/tools/solaris/java.html`)
* Windows: java - the Java application launcher
(`http://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/tools/windows/java.html`)
