docs/reference-manual/src/main/asciidoc/start-domain.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=start-domain
next=start-instance.html
prev=start-database.html
~~~~~~

= start-domain

[[start-domain]]

== start-domain

Starts the DAS of the specified domain

=== Synopsis

[source]
----
asadmin start-domain
[--debug|-d[=<debug(default:false)>]]
[--domaindir <domaindir>]
[--drop-interrupted-commands[=<drop-interrupted-commands(default:false)>]]
[--dry-run|-n[=<dry-run(default:false)>]]
[--help|-?]
[--suspend|-s[=<suspend(default:false)>]]
[--timeout <timeout>]
[--upgrade[=<upgrade(default:false)>]]
[--verbose|-v[=<verbose(default:false)>]]
[--watchdog|-w[=<watchdog(default:false)>]]
[domain_name]
----

=== Description

The `start-domain` subcommand starts the domain administration server
(DAS) of the specified domain. If a domain is not specified, the default
domain is assumed. If the domains directory contains two or more
domains, the domain-name operand must be specified.

[NOTE]
====
On the Windows platform, processes can bind to the same port. To avoid
this problem, do not start multiple domains with the same port number at
the same time.
====

This subcommand is supported in local mode only.

[NOTE]
====
In {productName}, the `start-domain` subcommand prompts for a
new admin user password if no password has been set for the admin user.
Additionally, the admin user password must not be blank if secure
administration is enabled; otherwise, the `start-domain` subcommand
fails.

To provide the new admin user password, you can use the `--passwordfile`
utility option of the xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)] command
after adding the entry `AS_ADMIN_NEWPASSWORD` to the password file.
====

=== Options

asadmin-options::
  Options for the `asadmin` utility. For information about these
  options, see the xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)] help page.
`--help`::
`-?`::
  Displays the help text for the subcommand.
`--debug`::
`-d`::
  Specifies whether the domain is started with
  http://java.sun.com/javase/technologies/core/toolsapis/jpda/[Java
  Platform Debugger Architecture (JPDA)]
  (https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/specs/jpda/conninv.html)
  debugging enabled. With debugging enabled extra exceptions can be printed.
  Possible values are as follows:

  `true`;;
    The instance is started with JPDA debugging enabled and the port
    number for JPDA debugging is displayed.
  `false`;;
    The instance is started with JPDA debugging disabled (default).

`--domaindir`::
  The domain root directory, which contains the directory of the domain
  that is to be restarted. If specified, the path must be accessible in
  the file system. The default location of the domain root directory is
  as-install``/domains``.

`--drop-interrupted-commands`::
  If you used --detach with commands supporting checkpoints, this
  option specifies whether to drop the commands that were interrupted.

`--dry-run`::
`-n`::
  Suppresses actual starting of the domain. Instead, `start-domain`
  displays the full java command that would be used to start the domain,
  including all options. Reviewing this command can be useful to confirm
  JVM options and when troubleshooting startup issues. +
  The default value is `false`.

`--suspend`::
`-s`::
  Specifies whether the domain is started with
  http://java.sun.com/javase/technologies/core/toolsapis/jpda/[Java
  Platform Debugger Architecture (JPDA)]
  (https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/specs/jpda/conninv.html)
  debugging enabled and suspend the newly started VM before the main class loads.
  When a debugger connects, it can send a JDWP command to resume the suspended VM.
  With debugging enabled extra exceptions can be printed.
  Possible values are as follows:

  `true`;;
    The instance is started with JPDA debugging enabled and a suspendPolicy of `SUSPEND_ALL`.
    The port number for JPDA debugging is displayed.
  `false`;;
    The instance is started with JPDA debugging disabled (default).

`--timeout`::
  Specifies timeout in seconds to evaluate the expected result.
  If the timeout is exceeded, the command fails - however it does
  not mean it did not make any changes. The domain status is unknown
  in such case.

`--upgrade`::
  Specifies whether the configuration of the domain administration
  server (DAS) is upgraded to the current release. Normally, if the
  subcommand detects that the configuration is from an older release of
  {productName}, the configuration is upgraded automatically before
  being started. You should not need to use this option explicitly. +
  Possible values are as follows:

  `true`;;
    When the domain is started, the configuration is modified to be
    compatible with this release of {productName}, and the
    {productName} process stops.
  `false`;;
    The configuration of the DAS is not updated (default).

`--verbose`::
`-v`::
  Specifies whether detailed information about the domain is displayed
  in the console window where the subcommand is run. +
  Possible values are as follows:

  `true`;;
    Detailed startup messages and log messages about the domain are
    displayed in the console window where the subcommand is run. If the
    domain is later restarted by running the
    xref:restart-domain.adoc#restart-domain[`restart-domain`(1)]
    subcommand from a different console window, messages continue to be
    displayed in the original console window. +
    You can kill the {productName} process by typing `CTRL-C` in the
    console window. +
    You can kill the {productName} process and obtain a thread dump
    for the server by typing one of the following key combinations in
    the console window:

    * `CTRL-\` on UNIX systems
    * `CTRL-Break` on Windows systems

  `false`;;
    Detailed information is not displayed (default).

`--watchdog`::
`-w`::
  Specifies whether limited information about the domain is displayed in
  the console window where the subcommand is run. The `--watchdog`
  option is similar to `--verbose` but does not display the detailed
  startup messages and log messages. This option is useful when running
  the `asadmin` utility in the background or with no attached console. +
  Possible values are as follows:

  `true`;;
    Limited information is displayed in the console window.
  `false`;;
    Limited information is not displayed in the console window
    (default).

=== Operands

domain-name::
  The unique name of the domain you want to start. +
  This operand is optional if only one domain exists in the {productName} installation.

=== Examples

[[sthref2130]]

==== Example 1   Starting a Domain

This example starts `mydomain4` in the default domains directory.

[source]
----
asadmin> start-domain mydomain4
Waiting for DAS to start. ...........
Started domain: mydomain4
Domain location: /myhome/glassfish7/glassfish/domains/mydomain4
Log file: /myhome/glassfish7/glassfish/domains/mydomain4/logs/server.log
Admin port for the domain: 4848
Command start-domain executed successfully.
----

=== Exit Status

0::
  subcommand executed successfully
1::
  error in executing the subcommand

=== See Also

xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)]

xref:create-domain.adoc#create-domain[`create-domain`(1)],
xref:delete-domain.adoc#delete-domain[`delete-domain`(1)],
xref:list-domains.adoc#list-domains[`list-domains`(1)],
xref:restart-domain.adoc#restart-domain[`restart-domain`(1)],
xref:stop-domain.adoc#stop-domain[`stop-domain`(1)]

Java Platform Debugger Architecture (JPDA)
(https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/specs/jpda/conninv.html)

Commit message:

Added documentation for the new property --server-output
- other are rather experimental, so I will not document them for now

Signed-off-by: David Matějček <david.matejcek@omnifish.ee>

docs/reference-manual/src/main/asciidoc/start-domain.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=start-domain
next=start-instance.html
prev=start-database.html
~~~~~~

= start-domain

[[start-domain]]

== start-domain

Starts the DAS of the specified domain

=== Synopsis

[source]
----
asadmin start-domain
[--debug|-d[=<debug(default:false)>]]
[--domaindir <domaindir>]
[--drop-interrupted-commands[=<drop-interrupted-commands(default:false)>]]
[--dry-run|-n[=<dry-run(default:false)>]]
[--help|-?]
[--server-output|-o=<server-output(default:false)>]]
[--suspend|-s[=<suspend(default:false)>]]
[--timeout <timeout>]
[--upgrade[=<upgrade(default:false)>]]
[--verbose|-v[=<verbose(default:false)>]]
[--watchdog|-w[=<watchdog(default:false)>]]
[domain_name]
----

=== Description

The `start-domain` subcommand starts the domain administration server
(DAS) of the specified domain. If a domain is not specified, the default
domain is assumed. If the domains directory contains two or more
domains, the domain-name operand must be specified.

[NOTE]
====
On the Windows platform, processes can bind to the same port. To avoid
this problem, do not start multiple domains with the same port number at
the same time.
====

This subcommand is supported in local mode only.

[NOTE]
====
In {productName}, the `start-domain` subcommand prompts for a
new admin user password if no password has been set for the admin user.
Additionally, the admin user password must not be blank if secure
administration is enabled; otherwise, the `start-domain` subcommand
fails.

To provide the new admin user password, you can use the `--passwordfile`
utility option of the xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)] command
after adding the entry `AS_ADMIN_NEWPASSWORD` to the password file.
====

=== Options

asadmin-options::
  Options for the `asadmin` utility. For information about these
  options, see the xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)] help page.
`--help`::
`-?`::
  Displays the help text for the subcommand.
`--debug`::
`-d`::
  Specifies whether the domain is started with
  http://java.sun.com/javase/technologies/core/toolsapis/jpda/[Java
  Platform Debugger Architecture (JPDA)]
  (https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/specs/jpda/conninv.html)
  debugging enabled. With debugging enabled extra exceptions can be printed.
  Possible values are as follows:

  `true`;;
    The instance is started with JPDA debugging enabled and the port
    number for JPDA debugging is displayed.
  `false`;;
    The instance is started with JPDA debugging disabled (default).

`--domaindir`::
  The domain root directory, which contains the directory of the domain
  that is to be restarted. If specified, the path must be accessible in
  the file system. The default location of the domain root directory is
  as-install``/domains``.

`--drop-interrupted-commands`::
  If you used --detach with commands supporting checkpoints, this
  option specifies whether to drop the commands that were interrupted.

`--dry-run`::
`-n`::
  Suppresses actual starting of the domain. Instead, `start-domain`
  displays the full java command that would be used to start the domain,
  including all options. Reviewing this command can be useful to confirm
  JVM options and when troubleshooting startup issues. +
  The default value is `false`.

`--server-output`::
`-o`::
   Specifies if the command should or should not print the server output.
   If not set, server prints the output just when the command failed.
   Possible values are as follows:

   `true`;;
    The output of the server startup will be printed after the command finishes.
   `false`;;
     The output of the server startup will not be printed.

`--suspend`::
`-s`::
  Specifies whether the domain is started with
  http://java.sun.com/javase/technologies/core/toolsapis/jpda/[Java
  Platform Debugger Architecture (JPDA)]
  (https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/specs/jpda/conninv.html)
  debugging enabled and suspend the newly started VM before the main class loads.
  When a debugger connects, it can send a JDWP command to resume the suspended VM.
  With debugging enabled extra exceptions can be printed.
  Possible values are as follows:

  `true`;;
    The instance is started with JPDA debugging enabled and a suspendPolicy of `SUSPEND_ALL`.
    The port number for JPDA debugging is displayed.
  `false`;;
    The instance is started with JPDA debugging disabled (default).

`--timeout`::
  Specifies timeout in seconds to evaluate the expected result.
  If the timeout is exceeded, the command fails - however it does
  not mean it did not make any changes. The domain status is unknown
  in such case.

`--upgrade`::
  Specifies whether the configuration of the domain administration
  server (DAS) is upgraded to the current release. Normally, if the
  subcommand detects that the configuration is from an older release of
  {productName}, the configuration is upgraded automatically before
  being started. You should not need to use this option explicitly. +
  Possible values are as follows:

  `true`;;
    When the domain is started, the configuration is modified to be
    compatible with this release of {productName}, and the
    {productName} process stops.
  `false`;;
    The configuration of the DAS is not updated (default).

`--verbose`::
`-v`::
  Specifies whether detailed information about the domain is displayed
  in the console window where the subcommand is run. +
  Possible values are as follows:

  `true`;;
    Detailed startup messages and log messages about the domain are
    displayed in the console window where the subcommand is run. If the
    domain is later restarted by running the
    xref:restart-domain.adoc#restart-domain[`restart-domain`(1)]
    subcommand from a different console window, messages continue to be
    displayed in the original console window. +
    You can kill the {productName} process by typing `CTRL-C` in the
    console window. +
    You can kill the {productName} process and obtain a thread dump
    for the server by typing one of the following key combinations in
    the console window:

    * `CTRL-\` on UNIX systems
    * `CTRL-Break` on Windows systems

  `false`;;
    Detailed information is not displayed (default).

`--watchdog`::
`-w`::
  Specifies whether limited information about the domain is displayed in
  the console window where the subcommand is run. The `--watchdog`
  option is similar to `--verbose` but does not display the detailed
  startup messages and log messages. This option is useful when running
  the `asadmin` utility in the background or with no attached console. +
  Possible values are as follows:

  `true`;;
    Limited information is displayed in the console window.
  `false`;;
    Limited information is not displayed in the console window
    (default).

=== Operands

domain-name::
  The unique name of the domain you want to start. +
  This operand is optional if only one domain exists in the {productName} installation.

=== Examples

[[sthref2130]]

==== Example 1   Starting a Domain

This example starts `mydomain4` in the default domains directory.

[source]
----
asadmin> start-domain mydomain4
Waiting for DAS to start. ...........
Started domain: mydomain4
Domain location: /myhome/glassfish7/glassfish/domains/mydomain4
Log file: /myhome/glassfish7/glassfish/domains/mydomain4/logs/server.log
Admin port for the domain: 4848
Command start-domain executed successfully.
----

=== Exit Status

0::
  subcommand executed successfully
1::
  error in executing the subcommand

=== See Also

xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)]

xref:create-domain.adoc#create-domain[`create-domain`(1)],
xref:delete-domain.adoc#delete-domain[`delete-domain`(1)],
xref:list-domains.adoc#list-domains[`list-domains`(1)],
xref:restart-domain.adoc#restart-domain[`restart-domain`(1)],
xref:stop-domain.adoc#stop-domain[`stop-domain`(1)]

Java Platform Debugger Architecture (JPDA)
(https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/specs/jpda/conninv.html)
