docs/reference-manual/src/main/asciidoc/stop-cluster.adoc, before:

type=page
status=published
title=stop-cluster
next=stop-database.html
prev=start-local-instance.html
~~~~~~

= stop-cluster

[[stop-cluster]]

== stop-cluster

Stops a {productName} cluster

=== Synopsis

[source]
----
asadmin [asadmin-options] stop-cluster [--help]
[--verbose={false|true}]
[--kill={false|true}]
[--autohadboverride={true|false}]
cluster-name
----

=== Description

The `stop-cluster` subcommand stops a {productName} cluster by
stopping all running {productName} instances in the cluster.

This subcommand is supported in remote mode only.

=== Options

asadmin-options::
  Options for the `asadmin` utility. For information about these
  options, see the xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)] help page.
`--help`::
`-?`::
  Displays the help text for the subcommand.
`--verbose`::
  Specifies whether additional progress messages about the status of
  instances in the cluster are displayed while the cluster is being stopped. +
  Possible values are as follows:

  `true`;;
    Additional progress messages about the status of instances in the
    cluster are displayed.
  `false`;;
    No messages about the status of instances in the cluster are
    displayed.

`--kill`::
  Specifies whether each instance in the cluster is killed by using
  functionality of the operating system to terminate the instance
  process. +
  Possible values are as follows:

  `false`;;
    No instances are killed. The subcommand uses functionality of the
    Java platform to terminate each instance process (default).
  `true`;;
    Each instance is killed. The subcommand uses functionality of the
    operating system to terminate each instance process.

`--autohadboverride`::
  Do not specify this option. This option is retained for compatibility
  with earlier releases. If you specify this option, a syntax error does
  not occur. Instead, the subcommand runs successfully and displays a
  warning message that the option is ignored.

=== Operands

cluster-name::
  The name of the cluster to stop.

=== Examples

[[sthref2155]]

==== Example 1   Stopping a Cluster

This example stops the cluster `pmdcluster`. Additional progress
messages about the status of instances in the cluster are displayed
while the cluster is being stopped.

[source]
----
asadmin> stop-cluster --verbose pmdcluster
stop-instance pmd-i-sj01
stop-instance pmd-i-sj02

The command stop-instance executed successfully for: pmd-i-sj01 pmd-i-sj02

Command stop-cluster executed successfully.
----

=== Exit Status

0::
  command executed successfully
1::
  error in executing the command

=== See Also

xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)]

xref:create-cluster.adoc#create-cluster[`create-cluster`(1)],
xref:delete-cluster.adoc#delete-cluster[`delete-cluster`(1)],
xref:list-clusters.adoc#list-clusters[`list-clusters`(1)],
xref:start-cluster.adoc#start-cluster[`start-cluster`(1)]

Commit message:

Updated documentation for the --timeout parameter + sync asciidoc and man
Signed-off-by: David Matějček <david.matejcek@omnifish.ee>

docs/reference-manual/src/main/asciidoc/stop-cluster.adoc, after:

type=page
status=published
title=stop-cluster
next=stop-database.html
prev=start-local-instance.html
~~~~~~

= stop-cluster

[[stop-cluster]]

== stop-cluster

Stops a {productName} cluster

=== Synopsis

[source]
----
asadmin stop-cluster
[--help|-?]
[--kill[=<kill(default:false)>]]
[--timeout <timeout>]
clustername
----

=== Description

The `stop-cluster` subcommand stops a {productName} cluster by
stopping all running {productName} instances in the cluster.

This subcommand is supported in remote mode only.

=== Options

asadmin-options::
  Options for the `asadmin` utility. For information about these
  options, see the xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)] help page.
`--help`::
`-?`::
  Displays the help text for the subcommand.
`--verbose`::
  Specifies whether additional progress messages about the status of
  instances in the cluster are displayed while the cluster is being stopped. +
  Possible values are as follows:

  `true`;;
    Additional progress messages about the status of instances in the
    cluster are displayed.
  `false`;;
    No messages about the status of instances in the cluster are
    displayed.

`--kill`::
  Specifies whether each instance in the cluster is killed by using
  functionality of the operating system to terminate the instance
  process. +
  Possible values are as follows:

  `false`;;
    No instances are killed. The subcommand uses functionality of the
    Java platform to terminate each instance process (default).
  `true`;;
    Each instance is killed. The subcommand uses functionality of the
    operating system to terminate each instance process.

`--timeout`::
  Specifies timeout in seconds to evaluate the expected result.
  If the timeout is exceeded, the command fails - however it does
  not mean it did not make any changes. The status of instances is
  unknown in such case.

=== Operands

cluster-name::
  The name of the cluster to stop.

=== Examples

[[sthref2155]]

==== Example 1   Stopping a Cluster

This example stops the cluster `pmdcluster`. Additional progress
messages about the status of instances in the cluster are displayed
while the cluster is being stopped.

[source]
----
asadmin> stop-cluster --verbose pmdcluster
stop-instance pmd-i-sj01
stop-instance pmd-i-sj02

The command stop-instance executed successfully for: pmd-i-sj01 pmd-i-sj02

Command stop-cluster executed successfully.
----

=== Exit Status

0::
  command executed successfully
1::
  error in executing the command

=== See Also

xref:asadmin.adoc#asadmin[`asadmin`(1M)]

xref:create-cluster.adoc#create-cluster[`create-cluster`(1)],
xref:delete-cluster.adoc#delete-cluster[`delete-cluster`(1)],
xref:list-clusters.adoc#list-clusters[`list-clusters`(1)],
xref:start-cluster.adoc#start-cluster[`start-cluster`(1)]
