type=page
status=published
title=Eclipse GlassFish Server Embedded Server Guide, Release 5.1
next=preface.html
prev=lot.html
~~~~~~
Eclipse GlassFish Server Embedded Server Guide, Release 5.1
===========================================================

[[eclipse-glassfish-server]]
Eclipse GlassFish Server
------------------------

Embedded Server Guide

Release 5.1

Contributed 2018, 2019

This document explains how to run applications in embedded GlassFish
Server Open Source Edition and to develop applications in which
GlassFish Server is embedded. This document is for software developers
who are developing applications to run in embedded GlassFish Server. The
ability to program in the Java language is assumed.

Note: The main thrust of the Eclipse GlassFish Server 5.1
release is to provide an application server for developers to explore
and begin exploiting the new and updated technologies in the Java EE 7
platform. Thus, the embedded server feature of GlassFish Server was not
a focus of this release. This feature is included in the release, but it
may not function properly with some of the new features added in support
of the Java EE 7 platform.

[[sthref1]]

'''''

Eclipse GlassFish Server Embedded Server Guide, Release 5.1

Copyright Â© 2013, 2019 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the 
terms of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0, which is available at 
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0. 

SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0

Oracle and Java are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its 
affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners. 

Intel and Intel Xeon are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel 
Corporation. All SPARC trademarks are used under license and are 
trademarks or registered trademarks of SPARC International, Inc. AMD, 
Opteron, the AMD logo, and the AMD Opteron logo are trademarks or 
registered trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices. UNIX is a registered 
trademark of The Open Group. 
