docs/website/src/main/resources/download.md, before:

# Eclipse GlassFish Downloads

## Eclipse GlassFish 7.x

Eclipse GlassFish is an application server, implementing [Jakarta EE](https://jakarta.ee/about).
This release is corresponding with the [Jakarta EE 10](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/platform/10) specification, which is a major feature release.
Jakarta EE 10 requires JDK 11 as a minimum, but also officially works on JDK 17.

GlassFish 7.0.25 is a final release, containing final Jakarta EE 10 APIs. It compiles and runs on JDK 11 to JDK 24. MicroProfile support requires JDK 17 or higher.

This update emphasizes major cleanups, system optimizations, and prepares the codebase for easier future maintenance, notably in anticipation of the upcoming 7.1.0 release.

Download:

* [Eclipse GlassFish 7.0.25, Jakarta EE Platform, 10](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/ee4j/glassfish/glassfish-7.0.25.zip) (zip)
  * [Maven coordinates](https://central.sonatype.com/artifact/org.glassfish.main.distributions/glassfish/7.0.25)
* [Eclipse GlassFish 7.0.25, Jakarta EE Web Profile, 10](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/ee4j/glassfish/web-7.0.25.zip) (zip)
  * [Maven coordinates](https://central.sonatype.com/artifact/org.glassfish.main.distributions/web/7.0.25)
* [Eclipse GlassFish Embedded 7.0.25, Jakarta EE Platform, 10](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/glassfish/main/extras/glassfish-embedded-all/7.0.25/glassfish-embedded-all-7.0.25.jar) (jar)
  * [Maven coordinates](https://central.sonatype.com/artifact/org.glassfish.main.extras/glassfish-embedded-all/7.0.25)
* [Eclipse GlassFish Embedded 7.0.25, Jakarta EE Web Profile, 10](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/glassfish/main/extras/glassfish-embedded-web/7.0.25/glassfish-embedded-web-7.0.25.jar) (jar)
  * [Maven coordinates](https://central.sonatype.com/artifact/org.glassfish.main.extras/glassfish-embedded-web/7.0.25)

More details:

* [Eclipse GlassFish 7.0.25 Release Notes](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish/releases/tag/7.0.25)
* [Jakarte EE Specifications](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/) for more info about Jakarta EE


### All Eclipse GlassFish 7.x Downloads

Download all GlassFish 7.x releases at the [Eclipse GlassFish 7.x Downloads](download_gf7.md) page.

----

## Eclipse GlassFish Milestone & Nightly Downloads

You can download the latest Eclipse GlassFish development milestone or nightly version in the [Eclipse Foundation Download portal](https://download.eclipse.org/ee4j/glassfish/).

----

## Eclipse GlassFish 6.x

GlassFish 6.2.5 updates and reenables a lot of tests that were disabled in previous versions (most after the GF 5 to 6 transition), once again improves JDK 17 compatibility (cases found by the new tests), fixes several bugs, and contains new versions of Hibernate Validator, Jackson and others.

For more details on Jakarta EE 9.1, please see the [Jakarte EE Platform Specification Project](https://eclipse-ee4j.github.io/jakartaee-platform/).

* [Eclipse GlassFish ${glassfish.version.6x}, Jakarta EE Platform, 9.1](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/ee4j/glassfish/glassfish-${glassfish.version.6x}.zip)
* [Eclipse GlassFish ${glassfish.version.6x}, Jakarta EE Web Profile, 9.1](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/ee4j/glassfish/web-${glassfish.version.6x}.zip)

### All Eclipse GlassFish 6.x Downloads

Download all GlassFish 6.x releases at the [Eclipse GlassFish 6.x Downloads](download_gf6.md) page.

----

## Eclipse GlassFish 5.x

The latest stable releases of Eclipse GlassFish 5.1. This version is compatible with Jakarta EE 8 Specification.

* [Eclipse GlassFish ${glassfish.version.5x} - Jakarta EE Platform, 8](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/glassfish/glassfish-${glassfish.version.5x}.zip)
* [Eclipse GlassFish ${glassfish.version.5x} - Jakarta EE Web Profile, 8](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/glassfish/web-${glassfish.version.5x}.zip)


----

## Looking for Java EE 8?

Java EE has been contributed to the Eclipse Foundation.
The Jakarta EE community is responsible for all evolution of the
project formerly known as Java EE.
If you are looking for details of the archived Java EE GlassFish project, you are welcome to
[browse here](https://javaee.github.io/glassfish).

Commit message:

Better formulation of declaration of compatibility with Java versions.
Signed-off-by: David Matějček <david.matejcek@omnifish.ee>

docs/website/src/main/resources/download.md, after:

# Eclipse GlassFish Downloads

## Eclipse GlassFish 7.x

Eclipse GlassFish is an application server, implementing [Jakarta EE](https://jakarta.ee/about).
This release is corresponding with the [Jakarta EE 10](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/platform/10) specification, which is a major feature release.

GlassFish 7.0.25 is a final release, containing final Jakarta EE 10 APIs.
It is tested with Java 11, 17 and 21, experimentally can be used also with newer or non LTS version.
MicroProfile support requires JDK 17 or higher.

This update emphasizes major cleanups, system optimizations, and prepares the codebase for easier future maintenance, notably in anticipation of the upcoming 7.1.0 release.

Download:

* [Eclipse GlassFish 7.0.25, Jakarta EE Platform, 10](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/ee4j/glassfish/glassfish-7.0.25.zip) (zip)
  * [Maven coordinates](https://central.sonatype.com/artifact/org.glassfish.main.distributions/glassfish/7.0.25)
* [Eclipse GlassFish 7.0.25, Jakarta EE Web Profile, 10](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/ee4j/glassfish/web-7.0.25.zip) (zip)
  * [Maven coordinates](https://central.sonatype.com/artifact/org.glassfish.main.distributions/web/7.0.25)
* [Eclipse GlassFish Embedded 7.0.25, Jakarta EE Platform, 10](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/glassfish/main/extras/glassfish-embedded-all/7.0.25/glassfish-embedded-all-7.0.25.jar) (jar)
  * [Maven coordinates](https://central.sonatype.com/artifact/org.glassfish.main.extras/glassfish-embedded-all/7.0.25)
* [Eclipse GlassFish Embedded 7.0.25, Jakarta EE Web Profile, 10](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/glassfish/main/extras/glassfish-embedded-web/7.0.25/glassfish-embedded-web-7.0.25.jar) (jar)
  * [Maven coordinates](https://central.sonatype.com/artifact/org.glassfish.main.extras/glassfish-embedded-web/7.0.25)

More details:

* [Eclipse GlassFish 7.0.25 Release Notes](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish/releases/tag/7.0.25)
* [Jakarte EE Specifications](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/) for more info about Jakarta EE


### All Eclipse GlassFish 7.x Downloads

Download all GlassFish 7.x releases at the [Eclipse GlassFish 7.x Downloads](download_gf7.md) page.

----

## Eclipse GlassFish Milestone & Nightly Downloads

You can download the latest Eclipse GlassFish development milestone or nightly version in the [Eclipse Foundation Download portal](https://download.eclipse.org/ee4j/glassfish/).

----

## Eclipse GlassFish 6.x

GlassFish 6.2.5 updates and reenables a lot of tests that were disabled in previous versions (most after the GF 5 to 6 transition), once again improves JDK 17 compatibility (cases found by the new tests), fixes several bugs, and contains new versions of Hibernate Validator, Jackson and others.

For more details on Jakarta EE 9.1, please see the [Jakarte EE Platform Specification Project](https://eclipse-ee4j.github.io/jakartaee-platform/).

* [Eclipse GlassFish ${glassfish.version.6x}, Jakarta EE Platform, 9.1](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/ee4j/glassfish/glassfish-${glassfish.version.6x}.zip)
* [Eclipse GlassFish ${glassfish.version.6x}, Jakarta EE Web Profile, 9.1](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/ee4j/glassfish/web-${glassfish.version.6x}.zip)

### All Eclipse GlassFish 6.x Downloads

Download all GlassFish 6.x releases at the [Eclipse GlassFish 6.x Downloads](download_gf6.md) page.

----

## Eclipse GlassFish 5.x

The latest stable releases of Eclipse GlassFish 5.1. This version is compatible with Jakarta EE 8 Specification.

* [Eclipse GlassFish ${glassfish.version.5x} - Jakarta EE Platform, 8](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/glassfish/glassfish-${glassfish.version.5x}.zip)
* [Eclipse GlassFish ${glassfish.version.5x} - Jakarta EE Web Profile, 8](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/glassfish/web-${glassfish.version.5x}.zip)


----

## Looking for Java EE 8?

Java EE has been contributed to the Eclipse Foundation.
The Jakarta EE community is responsible for all evolution of the
project formerly known as Java EE.
If you are looking for details of the archived Java EE GlassFish project, you are welcome to
[browse here](https://javaee.github.io/glassfish).
