docs/website/src/main/resources/faq.md, before:

# Frequently Asked Questions About Eclipse GlassFish

* [What is Eclipse GlassFish?](#what-is-eclipse-glassfish)
* [Is Eclipse GlassFish open-source?](#is-eclipse-glassfish-open-source)
* [Is Eclipse GlassFish supported?](#is-eclipse-glassfish-supported)

## What is Eclipse GlassFish?

Eclipse GlassFish is an open-source Jakarta EE platform application server project started by Sun Microsystems, then sponsored by Oracle Corporation, and now living at the Eclipse Foundation.

## Is Eclipse GlassFish open-source?

Yes, Eclipse GlassFish is an open-source project made available under the terms of the [Eclipse Public License v. 2.0](http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0). Find out more in the [Eclipse GlassFish NOTICE file](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish/blob/master/NOTICE.md).

## Is Eclipse GlassFish supported?

Yes, there are multiple companies that provide Enterprise Support and other Professional Services. There's a list of those companies on the [Professional Services and Enterprise Support](support.md) page.

Commit message:

Add a top menu in the glassfish.org page Signed-off-by:Ondro Mihalyi <mihalyi@omnifish.ee>

docs/website/src/main/resources/faq.md, after:

# Frequently Asked Questions About Eclipse GlassFish

* [What is Eclipse GlassFish?](#what-is-eclipse-glassfish)
* [Is Eclipse GlassFish open-source?](#is-eclipse-glassfish-open-source)
* [Is Eclipse GlassFish supported?](#is-eclipse-glassfish-supported)

## What is Eclipse GlassFish?

Eclipse GlassFish is an open-source Jakarta EE platform application server project started by Sun Microsystems, then sponsored by Oracle Corporation, and now living at the Eclipse Foundation.

## Is Eclipse GlassFish open-source?

Yes, Eclipse GlassFish is an open-source project made available under the terms of the [Eclipse Public License v. 2.0](http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0). Find out more in the [Eclipse GlassFish NOTICE file](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish/blob/master/NOTICE.md).

## Can I contribute to the project?

Yes, the Eclipse GlassFish Project is open for contributions and your help is
greatly appreciated. You can report an [issue](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish/issues) with a bug, feedback, or an enhancement request. You can also contribute code or improve the documentation or the website. Find out more in the [Contributing to Eclipse GlassFish](CONTRIBUTING.md) page.

## Is Eclipse GlassFish supported?

Yes, there are multiple companies that provide Enterprise Support and other Professional Services. There's a list of those companies on the [Professional Services and Enterprise Support](support.md) page.
