# Eclipse GlassFish Documentation

The subdirectories of this directory contain the Eclipse GlassFish
website and documentation content, and the Maven projects to publish it.

The entire gh-pages content is published from here.
**DO NOT** update the gh-pages branch directly.

The `website` project contains the top level web site content.
The content is in `src/main/resources`.

The `parent` project effectively acts as an include file that contains
all the common asciidoc configuration that the other projects need.

The `distribution` project combines all the separate documentation
project contents into a single file, to make it convenient for
the `publish` project to reference published versions of the
documentation for previous releases.

The `publish` project contains the configuration to publish the
entire web site.

Each of the documentation projects generates a jar file with the
content for that document, using asciidoc.
The content is installed with `mvn install`.
The content of all these jar files is combined into a single jar
file by the `distribution` project.
Only this combined jar file needs to be deployed to Maven.

The `publish` project collects all of these distribution jar files
for the current relase and previous releases  using the
`maven-dependency-plugin`, lays them out in the proper directory
structure, and uses the `maven-scm-publish-plugin` to publish
the content to the `gh-pages` branch of the GitHub repository.

For each of the documents, there's a current version published under
the `docs/SNAPSHOT` directory, as well as stable released versions
published under the `docs/<version>` directories.
There's a `docs/latest` symlink that refers to the latest (final) release.

When a GlassFish release is done, the documents need to be generated
and deployed, so that final version numbered documents will be in the
Maven repository forever in the distribution artifact, and can be
collected by the `publish` project to create the web site.
The root `pom.xml` file needs to be updated to set the newly released
version (e.g. the `glassfish.version.7x` property).

## Preview the website in a forked Github repository

1. Run the following from this directory to build documentation and website modules:

```
mvn install
```

2. Then run the following to stage the Github pages resources:

```
mvn -pl website,distribution,publish -Ppublish-site install
```

3. Check out the `gh-pages` branch to a separate directory:

```
git clone --branch gh-pages https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish.git /separate/directory
```

4. Copy the files from publish/target/staging to the other repository:

```
 cp -r publish/target/staging/* /separate/directory
```

5. Push to a forked repository

* create a fork in GitHub
* add the fork as a new remote to the other repository
* commit the changes to the `gh-pages` branch
* (force) push the `gh-pages` beanch: `git -C /separate/directory push --force https://github.com/myfork/glassfish.git refs/heads/gh-pages:refs/heads/gh-pages` (replace myfork with your GitHub username)

6. Preview the website

After some time, the preview will be available at (replace myfork with your GitHub username):

https://myfork.github.io/glassfish

## Preview the website locally

It's possible to preview the website locally using a local Jekyll installation and procedure based on [instructions for the `jekyll-theme-eclipsefdn` theme](https://github.com/EclipseFdn/jekyll-theme-eclipsefdn#running-the-site-locally).

**Pre-requisites:**

* Ruby 2.1.0 or greater (check with `ruby --version`) - recommended to follow https://gorails.com/setup
* install `bundler` gem: `gem install bundler`

**Instructions:**

In the website directory generated by the `publish` module (`publish/target/staging`):

* create a file called `Gemfile` with the following contents:
```
source 'https://rubygems.org'
gem 'github-pages', group: :jekyll_plugins
gem 'jekyll-theme-eclipsefdn'
gem 'webrick'
```
* modify the `_config.yml` file:
  * change line `remote_theme: eclipsefdn/jekyll-theme-eclipsefdn` to `theme: jekyll-theme-eclipsefdn`
  * add line `repository: eclipse-ee4j/glassfish`
* run: `bundle install` (Install Jekyll and other dependencies)
* preview the site: `bundle exec jekyll serve`




## To Do

* Add a Jenkins job that waits for changes and publishes the web site.
